{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2706
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 the simple "text file" is one of the oldest and simplest types of file. For that reason, text\
files are one of the most universally standard ways to store information. A text file is\
something you could type up in a word processor, and save with the "plain text" option.\
a text file is made of a sequence of characters, organized as a series of horizontal lines of\
text. There is no notion of bold or italic or color applied to the characters; they are just\
plain text characters, as we would store in a string. Historically, text files have been\
made of the familiar roman keyboard alphabet \'96 abcdef..xyz012..89!@#$.. \'96 with the\
extremely standard ascii encoding (american standard code for information\
interchange). More recently, text has grown to include the idea of unicode characters like\
\'f8 and !, but the encodings for those are not yet as standard as ascii.\
the .java files where we write our java code are examples of text files. The text file is\
such a simple, flexible way to store information, it will be with us for a long time to\
come. If you want to store information in a simple, non-proprietary way, the text file is a\
great choice. Xml files, which are a very modern way to store information, are a type of\
text file.\
text file example\
this is the first line of my 4 line text file,\
and this here is the 2nd.\
the above line is blank!\
the above example text file is 4 lines long. Each line is made of plain characters and the\
end of each line is marked by an invisible "end-of-line" (i.e. Eol) character that signals\
the end of that line. For example, there is an eol character just after the "file," in the first\
line, and after the "blank!" in the last line. The eol character is essentially what you get\
when type the "return" key. The third line is blank which is valid. A blank line contains\
no characters other than the ending eol. There are actually a few different eol\
characters in use on different operating systems, but java will shield us from that detail.}
